The goal of this visualization project is to determine whether physical social distancing decreased the rate of spread of COVID-19. We look at social distancing from two perspetctives: lock-down/shelter-in-place and gathering restriction. For each, we studied the effect on transmission rate reduction, and we define transmission rate as effective reproductive number (Re).

## Measure intensity using effective reproductive number 
“According to Wallinga and Lipstich, The reproductive number to the time t at could be find by summing over all possible times t”
Re(u)=\sum_{u}^{u+stop} \frac{b(s)g(s−u)}{\sum_{a=0}^{stop}b(s−a)g(a)}

R(t): the effective reproductive number today (t)
b(t): incidence number at time t
g(t): value for general interval distribution at time t (the generation interval distribution is the probability distribution function for the time from infection of an individual to the infection of a secondary case by that individual)
stop: max generation interval as first day that captures > 99% of the density

In epidemiology, the basic reproductive number Re is often computed to quantify the intensity of an outbreak. R0 could be intuitively thought of the expected number of infectees directly generated by one infector in a population where all individuals are susceptible to be infected. However, in the context of COVID-19, we don’t assume that everyone is susceptible, thus a daily effective reproductive number is useful

## Incorporating Public Health Policies
Rest of the analysis is organized as follows.
(1) In tab 2, we visually determine whether gathering restriction decreases daily Re or not.
(2) In tab 3, we study the effect of lockdown on Re.
(3) In tab 4, we displayed the percentage change of effective reproductive number 4 days after lock-down policy is imposed and the number of days needed for the policy to be effective. 

## Conclusion
(1) From tab 2, we can see that gathering restriction policies decreased daily Re. The more strigent this gathering restriction policy is, the more decline for Re
(2) From tab 3, we determined that lock-down policy can reduce daily Re.
(3) In tab 4, we studied the effect of shelter-in-place more closely. We concluded that 4 days after the policy is inacted, on average Re decreased by 20-25%. Then, we looked at the number of days needed for the policy to be effective. We concluded that most states need about 20 days for lock-down policy to be effective.

To conclude, we believe public policy related to social distancing flattens the curve. However, immediate effect of the policy is not significant and it takes between 10 and 30 days for the policy to be effective.
